README.md, before:

# Lichen: A FLOSS software similarity detector

## Usage

### Installation

#### Binary Installation
```sh
$ cargo install --git https://github.com/iracigt/lichen.git
```

#### Development
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/iracigt/lichen.git
$ cd lichen
$ cargo build --release
$ target/release/lichen ...
```

Note that debug builds can be painfully slow on real data. Release builds are recommended.

### Runnning 

The simplest invocation is:
```sh
$ target/release/lichen ~/Downloads/submissions/
```

where submissions is a directory containing one file per student. The filename (up until the first `@` or `.`) is used as the student identifier. Source language is inferred from file extension. Such a directory tree looks like:

```
submissions
├── student1.c
├── student2.c
├── student3.c
    .
    .
    .
```

This form will also accept a directory where there is a subdirectory for each student. All files in the student subdirectory will be added (recursively). This accepts a directory tree such as:

```
submissions
├── student1
│   └── src
│       ├── a.c
│       ├── b.c
│       └── c.c
├── student2
│   └── src
│       ├── a.c
│       ├── b.c
│       └── c.c
├── student3
│  └── src
│       ├── a.c
|       .
|       .
|       .
```

To view all matches, use the `-t, --thresh` option to set the reporting threshold to zero:

```sh
$ lichen -t 0 ~/Downloads/submissions/ | sort -n
```

If the language cannot be inferred from the filename (such as when AutoLab renames all files `*_handin.c`) it can be manually specified using the `-l, --lang` option. See `lichen --help` for a complete listing of included languages.

```sh
$ lichen --lang OCaml ~/Downloads/submissions
```


To selectively include files, a regular expression can be provided with the `-f, --filter` option. Only filenames matching the expression will be included. This can be used to exclude Makefiles and other configuration files and only consider source files. Note that this filter is currently only applied to filenames and cannot be used to exclude directories.

```sh
$ lichen -f ".*\.(c|h)" ~/Downloads/submissions
```

For fine tuning of the matching, the ngram length can be configured using `-n, --ngram`. Lower values are more resistant to modification of the source but may increase the false positive rate.

```sh
$ lichen -n 12 ~/Downloads/submissions
```

Sources may be explicitly allowed with `-b, --bless` which takes a directory containing files with allowed source code (e.g. handout code). This directory is not currently traversed recursively.

Similarly, the `-c, --corpus` option allows specification of known disallowed sources, such as submissions from previous semesters. Files included via this option are not scored, but similarity will be measured between provided input files is computed and recorded.

```sh
$ lichen -b handout/ -c old_submissions/ ~/Downloads/submissions
```

## License

GNU Affero General Public License v3.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Similar Systems

This was heavily influenced by MOSS by Aiken at Stanford ([Website](https://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/moss/), [Paper](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/publications/papers/sigmod03.pdf)). The main algorithmic difference is I do not use the winnowing approach and instead just match against all hashes. The key motivators for this project were MOSS' closed source implementation and limited language support, specifically the lack of Scala.

This project has no relation to the work from Rensselaer Center for Open Source Software also called Lichen ([Website](https://submitty.org/instructor/course_management/plagiarism), [Paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3287324.3293867)). Turns out someone else appreciated this pun and had used it for a similar project three years prior to mine. Overall, our approaches seem to be quite alike: leverage programming editor language frontends, hash n-grams, and compare all results.

Commit message:

Do directory traversal on blessed and corpus sets

README.md, after:

# Lichen: A FLOSS software similarity detector

## Usage

### Installation

#### Binary Installation
```sh
$ cargo install --git https://github.com/iracigt/lichen.git
```

#### Development
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/iracigt/lichen.git
$ cd lichen
$ cargo build --release
$ target/release/lichen ...
```

Note that debug builds can be painfully slow on real data. Release builds are recommended.

### Runnning 

The simplest invocation is:
```sh
$ target/release/lichen ~/Downloads/submissions/
```

where submissions is a directory containing one file per student. The filename (up until the first `@` or `.`) is used as the student identifier. Source language is inferred from file extension. Such a directory tree looks like:

```
submissions
├── student1.c
├── student2.c
├── student3.c
    .
    .
    .
```

This form will also accept a directory where there is a subdirectory for each student. All files in the student subdirectory will be added (recursively). This accepts a directory tree such as:

```
submissions
├── student1
│   └── src
│       ├── a.c
│       ├── b.c
│       └── c.c
├── student2
│   └── src
│       ├── a.c
│       ├── b.c
│       └── c.c
├── student3
│  └── src
│       ├── a.c
|       .
|       .
|       .
```

To view all matches, use the `-t, --thresh` option to set the reporting threshold to zero:

```sh
$ lichen -t 0 ~/Downloads/submissions/ | sort -n
```

If the language cannot be inferred from the filename (such as when AutoLab renames all files `*_handin.c`) it can be manually specified using the `-l, --lang` option. See `lichen --help` for a complete listing of included languages.

```sh
$ lichen --lang OCaml ~/Downloads/submissions
```

To selectively include files, a regular expression can be provided with the `-f, --filter` option. Only filenames matching the expression will be included. This can be used to exclude Makefiles and other configuration files and only consider source files. Note that this filter is currently only applied to filenames and cannot be used to exclude directories.

```sh
$ lichen -f ".*\.(c|h)" ~/Downloads/submissions
```

For fine tuning of the matching, the ngram length can be configured using `-n, --ngram`. Lower values are more resistant to modification of the source but may increase the false positive rate.

```sh
$ lichen -n 12 ~/Downloads/submissions
```

Sources may be explicitly allowed with `-b, --bless` which takes a directory containing files with allowed source code (e.g. handout code).

Similarly, the `-c, --corpus` option allows specification of known disallowed sources, such as submissions from previous semesters. Files included via this option are not scored, but similarity will be measured between provided input files is computed and recorded.

The filter expression (if provided) is applied to files in both the blessed and corpus directories. 

```sh
$ lichen -b handout/ -c old_submissions/ ~/Downloads/submissions
```

## License

GNU Affero General Public License v3.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

## Similar Systems

This was heavily influenced by MOSS by Aiken at Stanford ([Website](https://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/moss/), [Paper](http://theory.stanford.edu/~aiken/publications/papers/sigmod03.pdf)). The main algorithmic difference is I do not use the winnowing approach and instead just match against all hashes. The key motivators for this project were MOSS' closed source implementation and limited language support, specifically the lack of Scala.

This project has no relation to the work from Rensselaer Center for Open Source Software also called Lichen ([Website](https://submitty.org/instructor/course_management/plagiarism), [Paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3287324.3293867)). Turns out someone else appreciated this pun and had used it for a similar project three years prior to mine. Overall, our approaches seem to be quite alike: leverage programming editor language frontends, hash n-grams, and compare all results.
